IPv4 32 bits
IPv6 128 bits

Transport layers(TCP and UDP) breakes datagrams of up to 64k bytes, and send them to the IP layer

TCP is a connection-oriented protocol and it implements a connection as a stream of bytes from source
to destination. ( It uses queue )

While UDP is a connectionless transport protocol and uses datagrams to implement its
communication. ( Datagrams try to crowd into the recipient as quickly as possible )  

The difference between datagram and TCP connections is like the difference
between post offices and telephones. With a telephone, you make a connection to a
specific telephone number, if the person on the destination answers the phone, you
two are able to talk for a certain period of time, exchanging an arbitrary amount of
information, and then you close the connection. With a post offices, you typically
send a letter with the destination address on the envelope. Because of errors in
sorting, transportation and delivery and delays you cannot be certain if or when the
person addressed receives the letter. The only way to know is to request and receive
some kind of acknowledgement. You may retry several times if you get no
response, then give up.

On an IP network such as the Internet, the UDP (User Datagram Protocol) is used to
transmit fixed-length datagrams.


Datagrams advantages

  Speed.
  
        UDP involves low overhead since there is no need to set up connections,
        to maintain the order and correctness of the message delivery, or to tear down
        the connections after the communication.

  Message-oriented instead of stream-oriented.
  
        If the message to be sent is small and simple, it may be easier to simply
        send the chunk of bytes instead of going through the steps of converting
        it to and from streams.
        

A DatagramSocket is an interface through which DatagramPackets are transmitted.
A DatagramPacket is simply an IP-specific wrapper for a block of data.
DatagramSocket class is responsible for sending and receiving DatagramPacket via the UDP protocol.

UDP ports are separate from TCP ports.
Each computer has 65,536 UDP ports as well as its 65,536 TCP ports.